now the Lord spoke to Moses saying speak
to the children of Israel saying if a
person sins unintentionally against any
of the commandments of the Lord in
anything which ought not to be done and
does any of them if the anointed priest
sins bringing guilt on the people then
let him offer to the Lord for his sin
which he has sinned a young bull without
blemish as a sin offering he shall bring
the ball to the door of the tabernacle
of meeting before the Lord lay his hand
on the Bulls head and kill the bull
before the Lord then the anointed priest
shall take some of the Bulls blood and
bring it to the tabernacle of meeting
the priest shall dip his finger in the
blood and sprinkle some of the blood
seven times before the Lord in front of
the veil of the sanctuary and the priest
shall put some of the blood on the horns
of the altar of sweet incense before the
Lord which is in the tabernacle of
meeting and he shall pour the remaining
blood of the bull at the base of the
altar of the burnt offering which is at
the door of the tabernacle of meeting he
shall take from it all the fat of the
ball as the sin offer the fat that
covers the entrails and all the fat
which is on the entrance the two kidneys
and the fat that is on them by the
flanks and the fatty lobe attached to
the liver above the kidneys he shall
remove as it was taken from the bull of
the sacrifice of the peace offering and
the priest shall burn
on the altar of the burnt offering but
the Bulls hind and all its flesh with
its head and legs its entrails and awful
the Holborn he shall carry outside the
camp to a clean place where the ashes
are poured out and burn it on wood with
fire where the ashes are poured out it
shall be burned
now if the whole congregation of Israel
sins unintentionally and the thing is
hidden from the eyes of the Assembly and
they have done something against any of
the commandments of the Lord in anything
which should not be done and are guilty
when the sin which they have committed
becomes known then the Assembly shall
offer a young bull for the sin and bring
it before the tabernacle of meeting and
the elders of the congregation shall lay
their hands on the head of the bull
before the Lord then the bull shall be
killed before the Lord the anointed
priest shall bring some of the Bulls
blood to the tabernacle of meeting then
the priest shall dip his finger in the
blood and sprinkle it seven times before
the Lord in front of the vain and he
shall put some of the blood on the horns
of the altar which is before the Lord
which is in the tabernacle of meeting
and he shall pour the remaining blood at
the base of the altar of burnt-offering
which is at the door of the tabernacle
of meeting he shall take all the fat
from it and burn it on the altar and he
shall do with the ball as he did with
the bull as a sin offering
thus he shall do with it so the priest
shall make atonement for him and it
shall be forgiven then he shall carry
the ball outside the camp and burn it as
he burned the first ball it is a sin
offering for the Assembly when a ruler
has sinned and done something
unintentionally against any of the
commandments of the Lord his God in
anything which should not be done and is
guilty or if his sin which he has
committed comes to his knowledge he
shall bring as his offering a kid of the
goats a male without blemish and he
shall lay his hand on the head of the
goat and kill it at the place where they
killed the burnt offering before the
Lord it is a sin offering the priest
shall take some of the blood of the sin
offering with his finger put it on the
horns of the altar of burnt-offering
and pour its blood at the base of the
altar of burnt-offering and he shall
burn all its fat on the altar like the
fat of the sacrifice of the peace
offering so the priest shall make
atonement for him concerning his sin and
it shall be forgiven him if any one of
the common people sins unintentionally
by doing something against any of the
commandments of the Lord in anything
which ought not to be done and is guilty
or if his sin which he has committed
comes to his knowledge then he shall
bring us his offering a kid of the goats
a female without blemish for his sin
which he has committed and he shall lay
his hand on the head of the sin offering
and kill the sin offering of the place
of the burnt offering then the priest
shall take some of its blood with his
finger put it on the horns of the altar
of burnt-offering
and pour all the remaining blood at the
base of the altar he shall remove all
its fat as fat is removed from the
sacrifice of the peace offering and the
priest shall burn it on the altar for a
sweet aroma to the Lord so the priest
shall make atonement for him and it
shall be forgiven
if he brings a lamb as his sin-offering
he shall bring a female without blemish
then he shall lay his hand on the head
of the sin offering and kill it as a sin
offering at the place where they kill
the burnt offering the priest shall take
some of the blood of the sin offering
with his finger put it on the horns of
the altar of burnt-offering and pour all
the remaining blood at the base of the
altar he shall remove all its fat as the
fat of the lamb is removed from the
sacrifice of the peace offering then the
priest shall burn it on the altar
according to the offerings made by fire
to the Lord so the priest shall make
atonement for his sin that he has
committed and it shall be forgiven him